THERE ARE 49 COMMENTS.
RTX2080Ti
I still wonder why the pixel can get ahead of an IMX586 with merely a IMX363. If it’s google’s software, why can’t we just install google camera on OP7? Or is it still different?

Posted  on May 29, 2019 | 3:27 AM
fluxxis
Gcam on other devices as the Google Pixel is a myth to me. Since the OP3 and now the OP6 I constantly give Gcam a try but I always head back to the stock cam. Gcam still crashs from time to time, it’s not as stable and fast to open as the stock cam. It doesn’t even produce the better image in every scenario. Night mode, of course, easy win for Gcam, but in a lot of other – more common – scenarios, the stock cam takes the better pictures for me. I won’t say don’t use Gcam, but if you want the Pixel experience then… get a Pixel. Don’t get a Oneplus and think you can add Gcam to get the same experience as on the Pixel. Saying that, I’m very happy with the image quality of pictures taken with my Oneplus 6. Smartphone cameras have come a long way and we have to take pictures in nearly pitch black environments to see any differences without holding each picture side by side in full resolution. I don’t think the everyday buyer will every be dissatisfied with the camera of the Oneplus 7 nor the Oneplus 7 Pro. It’s just the fact for us techies, that the Pixel cam is unmatched in reliability and quality, but on a very high level.

Posted  on May 29, 2019 | 5:05 AM
RTX2080Ti
I have the OP3 and the OP6 as well, and I can see that gcam is not optimized well, but there are phones with the same sensor, sometimes even the same aperture, so did google intentionally make the generic gcam bad on purpose?

Posted  on Jun 2, 2019 | 4:07 AM
Jnss98b
Gcam is simply optimized for the Pixel line’s camera. There are more to a camera than just a sensors; the lens components matter too.

Posted  on May 29, 2019 | 7:07 AM
Patlex
Might be of interest to you https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HtXylqaXVWQ

Posted  on May 29, 2019 | 10:24 AM
Sergei G.
Because a great camera (just like a great phone) is always the result of combination of software + hardware, not just hardware.

If it’s google’s software, why can’t we just install google camera on OP7? Or is it still different?
Because Google Camera is optimized for Pixel hardware, simple as that. And a developer from XDA porting the app can’t achieve the same level of software + hardware integration Google Engineers did.

I’ve tested the Google Camera port on over a dozen phones, and 90%+ of the time it’s either: lagged, crashed, froze, took forever to process pictures, or night shots came out with a blue/reddish tint or blurry that took XDA devs months to try to fix but still not perfectly.

Posted  on May 29, 2019 | 11:31 AM
Patlex
I installed the one of the gcam versions for my fathers Moto X4 and it isn’t that much slower than the regular moto camera app and the quality is a little better than stock app and night sight works decently too.

Posted  on May 29, 2019 | 1:21 PM
Pixelated
No, friends, it’s almost entirely about that unparalleled Pixel camera.
Sure, if all you do with your phone is take photos; and having followed you on Twitter, I think that is your primary use for a phone. But for anything else, you have to be out of your mind to prefer the Pixel over this phone. Pixel offers nothing over this phone other than the camera.

And I’m starting to buy less and less into the Pixel camera hype. It’s king in low light. But anything else, it’s just a contrast-crazy camera.

Posted  on May 29, 2019 | 3:30 AM
vladsavov  Senior Vlad
and having followed you on Twitter, I think that is your primary use for a phone
Way to cast shade on my zany observations on transnational politics, American misgovernment, the hypocrisy of religion, avocados, and the greatness of Peter Dinklage. My Twitter feed is more than mobile camera sample photos!

Posted  on May 29, 2019 | 3:34 AM
Pixelated
I was talking about your Tweets regarding smartphones – _ – They’re almost always centred around the camera.

Posted  on May 29, 2019 | 4:05 AM
vladsavov  Senior Vlad
Still not true.

https://twitter.com/vladsavov/status/1132245474117861376

I hope you’ll give me credit enough to be the authority on what I tweet. And, supplementarily, to know that my interest in and evaluation of phones extends beyond the stuff I find photogenic enough to post on social media.

Posted  on May 29, 2019 | 4:19 AM
Pixelated
I don’t know Vlad, I mean in your review you’re saying you’d pick the Pixel 3a for its camera alone, even though it’s objectively (not subjectively, objectively) the lesser phone. I mean if you’re willing to let go of so much for gains in the camera department, then camera must be the absolute number 1 priority for you. It also explains why you’ve stuck with the Pixel 3 despite its myriad of issues.

Posted  on May 29, 2019 | 5:55 AM
kayzee
Vlad always comes over super defense about stuff like this; very touchy. I believe Pixelated was just pointing something out something he’s witnessed, and I kind of agree too. Nothing wrong with that, at all, but try to lighten up :blush:

Posted  on May 29, 2019 | 8:39 AM
cqdemal
Not sure about being defensive, but I agree about Vlad sometimes overvaluing certain aspects of some things and I actually enjoy reading his reviews for this exact reason.

I may not always agree with the final assessment, and of course we all have the right to do that, but I am beyond confident that if he praises something he really cares about, that thing is not just good but seriously good.

Posted  on May 29, 2019 | 2:34 PM
kayzee
Don’t get me wrong, I love the personal touch… it’s half the reason I come to The Verge!

Posted  on May 30, 2019 | 4:48 AM
PhatDummy
I hope you’ll give me credit enough to be the authority on what I tweet.
LOL – Vlad, it’s not that serious….

Pixelated made some decent points that you know you can agree with.

Posted  on May 29, 2019 | 4:08 PM
Sergei G.
Sure, if all you do with your phone is take photos {…} But for anything else, you have to be out of your mind to prefer the Pixel over this phone. Pixel offers nothing over this phone other than the camera.
Considering the average consumer takes lots of pictures, how does your point make his judgement any less valid? Your typical Karen isn’t spec-obsessed like you, she just cares the phone isn’t slow, that battery life is great, and that she can take great pictures of her food and kids during any light conditions to post on Instagram. For people like Karen, the Pixel is a far better phone than the OnePlus 7. You forget Android Enthusiasts are a minority.

Posted  on May 29, 2019 | 11:24 AM
llort
I disagree completely, and you kinda sorta contradict yourself too.

Your typical Karen isn’t spec-obsessed like you, she just cares the phone isn’t slow, that battery life is great, and that she can take great pictures of her food and kids

If your typical karen cares that the phone isn’t slow, she’d likely go with a phone that’s likely to remain not slow for a longer time i.e.one with higher specs. Also, the general consensus everywhere is that the pixel isn’t fast or slow, it’s okay, while the oneplus is plenty quick for its class.

And the point about taking good pictures – its not as if the oneplus takes shitty pictures. You’ll have to dig really deep to find a phone from top manufacturers in 2019 that takes bad pictures. Nearly all cameras are acceptably good, its just that some are much better. The obsession with professional grade smartphone photographs is largely restricted to tech commentators, bloggers and enthusiasts mostly. How many average people even download their pictures on a pc? Heck, how many users in emerging markets even have a pc? (places like india have plenty of users who only own a smartphone as a computing device)
If the majority of camera usage is for sharing on whatsapp (emerging markets particularly) or social media, an average phone by xiaomi, oneplus, samsung etc. is plenty good.

Posted  on May 29, 2019 | 1:00 PM
fueledbygin
If I’ve learned anything, it’s that it’s impossible to try to convince a subset of nerds that normal people don’t care about specs or spec bumps.

Posted  on May 29, 2019 | 1:27 PM
Velvet_Spaceman
If "Karen" doesn’t upgrade her phone every year I think the performance difference between the two is enough to make the difference.

The 3a (and even standard flagship Pixel 3) already feels "meh" as far as performance goes if we’re being generous, and maybe that’s fine if it maintains at meh, but in all likelihood it will do what all tech does and slouch in performance over the years with updates, developers raising the floor on their apps each year, and just general cruft from long usage that most people won’t know how to fix (try telling Karen to factory rest her phone every six months and see how well that goes over.)

If I were getting a family member one of the two I’d easily go for the OP7 as I don’t really question the longevity of it the same way I do the 3a.

And while yes most people take lots and lots of pictures (and video, which is something Pixels aren’t necessarily great at, but that’s a whole other can of worms) most pictures for most people seem to live and die on Facebook, Insta, and Snap. So long as the OP7 camera is competent (and by all accounts it seems to be) it should be more than fine for most people.

Posted  on May 29, 2019 | 2:25 PM
llort
exactly!

Posted  on May 29, 2019 | 3:35 PM
gxvgy267
Let’s be honest… 
"Karen" wouldn’t have noticed a difference in camera quality for most of her day-day pics. "Karen" also won’t be able to tell the difference in day-day performance between a Snapdragon 670 and 855. But I bet you money Karen will think both phones are inferior because they’re not an iPhone. Most of the "Karens" I know are more concerned whether their texts are blue or green, than they are with frivolous nerd stuff like spec comparisons.

Posted  on Jun 2, 2019 | 11:57 AM
Sid J
And I’m starting to buy less and less into the Pixel camera hype. It’s king in low light. But anything else, it’s just a contrast-crazy camera.
My wife has the pixel3, and I can tell you from first hand experience that the pixel camera hype is real. Even compared to the Galaxy S10 and iPhone XR camera, the pixel will stand out in almost every lighting condition. We shot beach pictures with sun setting in the background, and somehow the pixel managed better HDR exposure on people in the foreground than my Sony RX100m2. 
If camera is a priority, pixel is the phone even with any other compromises. Pixel 3a also has a headphone jack for folks who prefer those.

Posted  on May 29, 2019 | 11:44 AM
inkyred
I completely agree with Pixelated. I don’t understand why you’d choose an inferior phone just for a camera. A cam with pics that most people wouldn’t even choose in a blind test anyway. And if you’re gonna go that route go use a huawei phone, you’re just in it for the camera right, all those other problems shouldn’t matter then.

Posted  on May 29, 2019 | 4:18 PM
w8ng4u
One of the things about the 3a that gets me is the amount of no name parts they used on the mobo. Plus they used some sort of ram/memory combo that I haven’t seen used before (not saying it hasn’t, but it ain’t in the Pixel 3). I also worry that they pulled a Xiaomi and used B grade internals in order to hit a price point. This was the norm for Nexus phones. 
With all the hype, I have to assume that it’s a great phone, but I have been burned a couple of times by buying cheap Google/Nexus products. Camera or not, I don’t think I can be talked into doing it again.

Posted  on May 29, 2019 | 4:47 AM
ujwalsoni
It’s like we’ve all developed collective amnesia about the glorious, polycarbonate-clad Nokia N9.
I still take it out of the drawer and hold it sometimes. And it wasn’t just the hardware that was stupendous. Side note – the only other phone that has ever fascinated me as much as the N9, at least to hold and handle, is the Nokia Lumia 735, which wasn’t even a unibody. Wanted it as a second phone. Ordered one from Amazon, turned out to be fake. Ordered another from Ebay China – also fake. Alas.

Posted  on May 29, 2019 | 5:16 AM
Pixelated
I’ve owned the N9, Lumia 920 and the Lumia 1020. I’ve owned every single iPhone since the 4S. Nothing holds a candle to how beautiful those polycarbonate slabs were from Nokia.

Posted  on May 29, 2019 | 5:57 AM
ujwalsoni
If you ever find a Lumia 735 on the cheap, even used (I think plenty are available on e-bay in the US and Europe), I strongly recommend that you buy it, if only to reinforce the memory of what we have collectively lost. That phone is the epitome of subtle style. I still cannot for the life of me find an OLED phone under 5 inches.

Posted  on May 29, 2019 | 6:32 AM
Jes Conradsen
Gorgeous phones indeed.

That Nokia design language is sorely missed in todays looks over form glass slabs.

Posted  on May 29, 2019 | 12:08 PM
splus
The main underlying problem is that OnePlus stopped being a "great value for money" brand.
And they’re not good enough to be a good premium brand either.

People buy either the premium or the good value for money phones, and OnePlus now isn’t either of those.

Posted  on May 29, 2019 | 6:50 AM
The Artgineer
They are now at the LG/Motorola flagship price point. Almost as good as a real flagship, almost as expensive, but the people with that kind of money are also buying into a status or a statement.

LG and Moto had the advantage of being peddled by carriers and even then they barely sell their "premium" flagships.

Posted  on May 29, 2019 | 8:43 AM
Elkhantar
One thing you might want to correct, Vlad, Xiaomi uses MIUI, not EMUI. One of both is an aberrant mix of iOS and Android and actually appeals to a ton of people (although I personally loathe it), the other is a skin of Android which I also despise, but it is way different.

I cross my fingers for an Android One version of the Mi 9 which is not likely to happen, but would be awesome to get.

Posted  on May 29, 2019 | 7:19 AM
fog_frog
BAD STUFF: Faces tough competition from Google’s Pixel 3A
How the hell is this a bad stuff?!?! :smile:
Is it bad for me, the user – or bad for OnePlus?
Its like writer sat there for 10 mins thinking "I should come up with one more…"

Posted  on May 29, 2019 | 7:36 AM
The Artgineer
So you do understand what he meant, yet you say you don’t.

Posted  on May 29, 2019 | 8:51 AM
llort
It’s not a coherent point at all. A review is meant for a user. And having pixel as competition under "bad stuff about this phone" is not helpful at all.

Posted  on May 29, 2019 | 1:03 PM
klaw81
It’s a perfectly valid point.

A downside for the OnePlus 7 is that the Pixel 3A exists, is significantly cheaper to buy, and has (among other, smaller advantages) a clearly superior camera.

The Pixel camera hype is real. When I’m with a group of people taking photos of the same subject using their phones, the Pixel’s photos are the ones that end up being shared around – they’re simply the nicest-looking shots, and they require zero skill or effort on the part of the user. That’s a really big deal, and one of the two things that keeps me firmly in the Pixel camp (the other is stock Android).

There’s no doubt that the OnePlus is smoother, more modern looking and has various other advantages. But when the competition has such a performance advantage in an important area like camera, it makes a difference.

Posted  on May 29, 2019 | 5:50 PM
OpssYourBad
For some consumers, the OnePlus 7 does not compare favorably when it comes to value. It’s not necessarily a point you have to agree with, but it is a legitimate negative from Vlad’s POV.

Posted  on May 29, 2019 | 10:08 PM
Luke.in.China
I don’t understand the author’s hatred for MIUI. I use MIUI 10 on a Mi Max 3 alongside Android One on a Nokia 7 plus on a daily basis, and I significantly prefer MIUI 10. More smooth, more functional, more customizable, and with a third party launcher (or even Xiaomi’s own Poco launcher, which is what I use) and a good theme from the extensive theme store, it doesn’t even look that different from stock Android, especially now that with MIUI 10 notifications and the status bar have moved much closer to stock in appearance and behaviour.

Posted  on May 29, 2019 | 8:10 AM
OpssYourBad
Even a piece of turd will have its admirers, and MIUI isn’t quite a piece of turd.

Posted  on May 29, 2019 | 10:09 PM
JeffZ802
Man I can’t be the only one that just doesn’t take that many photos outside of vacations and maybe if I got a neat lunch? Like my life is pretty damn boring.

photo taking is a minimal % of my average phone usage, so performance, display, ui, speakers etc are way more important.

Posted  on May 29, 2019 | 9:14 AM
llort
Put it this way, if taking photos was that critical, the flagship pixel would’ve sold way, way better than it has. Granted google wouldn’t sell it on more than one carrier, but then again, so did apple in 2007

Posted  on May 29, 2019 | 1:04 PM
Nicholas Platts
Smartphones are getting so boring…. We need I N N O V A T I O N

Posted  on May 29, 2019 | 9:29 AM
eschwiz
Old Navy, Gap, Banana Republic.

Each one makes the buyer of the other feel different.

Better deal, same for less, better quality etc.

It’s no different than what we are seeing here.

Different options with minimal differences to appeal to different buyers.

Posted  on May 29, 2019 | 9:32 AM
Patlex
Does a f0.1 aperture really make a difference between this at the 7 Pro? Cause I’ve done ab testing between f2.8 and f2.5 on two different cameras(same focal length) and I settings weren’t that far about and so at f.1 difference it should be almost the same.

Posted  on May 29, 2019 | 10:26 AM
aenews
It might be quite the disservice to simply state the 7 is a spec-bumped 6T and refer potential customers to the 6T review. As far as I can tell, the 6T actually carries many of the improvements in the 7 Pro (True Stereo Speakers, Larger More Accurate FP Scanner, Same Primary Camera, 200% Stronger Vibration Motor?, UFS 3.0 Storage (And along with the 7 Pro, first to market at that). I found those features, especially the first two, to make a huge difference on the 7 Pro. Basically, OnePlus has improved on many of the weaknesses in the 6T. Previously, we had a single downfiring speaker and a poor vibration motor. It would be beneficial to read a more accurate review for the 7 and not just refer to the 6T.

Posted  on May 29, 2019 | 1:20 PM
Echoplex_SE
The curved glass and size are immediate deal breakers, more so the curved glass. I will not buy a phone or any screen that has this nonsense. I borderline hate the edge to edge display on my iPhone XS, accidentally hitting things when I have no case on the phone is maddening

Posted  on May 29, 2019 | 1:58 PM
bhargavbuddy
The lack of headphone jack instantly made these devices a no-no for me. Even though the other features sound impressive, it doesn’t tick that basic box for me. Same goes for mi 9. The zenfone and the redmi k20 on the other hand sound a lot more appealing for the features and value they provide.

Posted  on May 29, 2019 | 5:24 PM
Ramses1986
The sides on the 7 pro are not pencils line but curved, which for me is a deal breaker. And when comparing bezels with the iPhone Xs, don’t forget the chin which is bigger on the OnePlus phone… a comparison should be completely fair not always in disadvantage for one particular phone…

Posted  on Jun 17, 2019 | 12:54 PM
gronetwork
The OnePlus 7 Pro, comparing to the OnePlus 7, has a slightly bigger display, a better pixels density, more RAM memory, a more advenced camera, with additional captors, an extended battery capacity. Otherwise, the processor is the same. The versatile use battery life is lower.The performance are globally the same.

