XIAOMI MI 9 REVIEW: CHEAP SPEED
Lightning-fast performance at a low price... if you live in the right place
Xiaomi’s flagship Mi series of smartphones is usually relatively unremarkable. Unlike the notch-busting Mi Mix line, the Mi phones don’t tend to have particularly interesting designs, and Xiaomi doesn’t push the prices as far down as it can with the Redmi range. The Mi phones are always just pretty good, pretty affordable phones.

The Mi 9 is a little different. It doesn’t depart from the basic Mi formula of offering high-end specs in a mainstream design at a reasonable price. But more so than any other Mi series phone in the past, the ~$500 Mi 9 narrows the gap with its high-end flagship competitors even further. If you live in a country where the Mi 9 is available, there’s very little reason not to give it serious consideration.

GOOD STUFF
Excellent performance
Fast wireless charging
Incomparable value
BAD STUFF
No waterproofing
MIUI isn’t for everyone
Bad speaker
The Mi series has established its own design language at this point, and this continues with the Mi 9. There’s the same stainless steel frame that’s thinner on the sides than the top and bottom edges, leaving a curved glass panel to fill in the space. The left side of the phone has a dedicated Google Assistant button, which I could take or leave. (I would rather have it than a Bixby button.)

Overall, it’s a sleek, attractive device, though my “piano black” review unit is more like “mirrored gunmetal,” and it’s one of the slippier, more fingerprint-prone phones I’ve seen in a while. I’d probably like the iridescent purple and blue options better, not to mention the transparent model.

The screen is a 6.4-inch 1080p OLED panel with a slight chin at the bottom and a minimalist waterdrop-style notch at the top. It looks great and also houses an optical in-display fingerprint scanner, which works well enough — if not quite as quickly as Vivo’s most recent implementations. Xiaomi isn’t doing anything cutting edge with its display, but if you’re cool with the small notch, there’s little reason to complain.

The camera can also be safely classified as solid. This is Xiaomi’s first phone to use a triple-lens setup, with a 16-megapixel ultrawide and a 12-megapixel 2x telephoto camera flanking the standard 48-megapixel sensor. The extra resolution is used for pixel-binning and greater light sensitivity at 12 megapixels, but unlike the Honor View 20, there’s no “ultra clarity” mode to bring out extra detail in the 48-megapixel files. You can shoot at full resolution, but it won’t do much beyond giving you unnecessarily large files.

I HAVE ABSOLUTELY NO COMPLAINTS ABOUT PERFORMANCE
Again, Xiaomi isn’t competing with high-end competitors with advanced AI-powered HDR implementations. You’re not going to get anything like the Huawei P30’s mind-blowing low-light performance, but its results are broadly satisfying. Colors are well-balanced in daylight, and the night mode is pretty good for what it is. The ultrawide and telephoto cameras aren’t optically stabilized, so they’re not as well-suited to low-light use, but they’re a welcome addition nonetheless.

The Mi 9 is one of the first phones available with Qualcomm’s latest top-end Snapdragon 855 processor, and I have absolutely no complaints about its performance. MIUI, Xiaomi’s version of Android, is extremely smooth on this phone, with the kind of snappy animations and buttery scrolling that I’d normally only expect from OnePlus in this space. Whether I can thank the software or the hardware or — more likely — both, the Mi 9 has been fast and reliable with everything I’ve thrown at it.

MIUI is certainly a radical reskin of Android, and it probably won’t appeal to Pixel or OnePlus purists. But it’s a mature OS in its own right, and I generally find it to be thoughtfully designed and pleasant to use. The Mi 9’s implementation of a full-screen gesture-based navigation system, for example, is the best I’ve seen on Android, though the iPhone-style swipe from the left side of the screen to go back does take a little practice to invoke when using apps with similar gestures.

Xiaomi has also thrown in a couple of features that tend to be first on Chinese phone makers’ cutting room floor. The Mi 9 now has the fastest wireless charging in the world, for example, despite companies like Huawei and Vivo mostly ignoring the feature. Xiaomi sells a 20W wireless charger that’s a pretty great product in its own right; it has an austere white design and a rubberized finish that ensures that even the Mi 9 won’t slip off. For about $15, including a 27W USB-C wired power adapter, it’s a bargain.

The Mi 9 also has the best haptic feedback of any Chinese phone I’ve used. It doesn’t match up to Apple or LG, and it isn’t used extensively throughout MIUI, but it’s a step above what companies like Oppo and OnePlus are doing. While this probably isn’t the most crucial feature in the world for most people, it goes some way to enhancing the sense that you’re getting far more than you’re paying for with the Mi 9.

So what are you missing out on if you do go for the Mi 9 over a more expensive flagship? Not a whole lot. There’s no IP rating for water or dust resistance. There’s only a single mono speaker on the bottom edge of the phone, and it’s pretty bad. There’s no headphone jack, although that isn’t associated with high-end phones any more unless you’re buying from Samsung or LG. The camera isn’t quite world-class, but it’s a perfectly usable three-lens setup.

At €449 (just over $500) for a model with 6GB of RAM and 128GB of storage, the Mi 9 is a ridiculous bargain as long as you live somewhere it’s sold. (Right now, that basically means China or Europe. There’s no Indian release on the horizon, and it doesn’t have broad compatibility with US LTE bands.) Xiaomi has been talking of its ambitions to launch phones in the US for several years, but it still has almost nothing to show for it.

I would say this is the best value in a flagship smartphone in the world, but it’s increasingly hard to say things like that as the global tech market continues to fragment. Instead, all I can say is that Xiaomi has turned in an incredibly solid product at an extremely reasonable price, and now that the company has at least some Western presence, OnePlus and Honor should be on notice.


Xiaomi Mi 9 review: A worthy OnePlus rival
Ridiculous value... if you can buy one.
I can't spend $1,000 on a smartphone. I just can't. I've walked into countless phone stores, credit card in hand, with every intention of buying the latest flagship. I walk up to the demo area, wake the handset I've already decided to buy and spend a few moments swiping through the app drawer, willing myself to follow through on the purchase. My throat tightens and a few minutes later my legs are moving involuntarily out the door and down the street.
It's been this way for years. I love high-end smartphones but can't stomach the price-tag when I think about the rent, bills and unpaid student loans waiting for me at home. Instead, I've veered toward OnePlus and similar brands that offer flagship performance at two-thirds, or sometimes even half the price of phones from likes of Samsung, Google and Apple. And now, Chinese giant Xiaomi has finally entered Europe, including the UK. That makes its latest flagship, the glossy Mi 9, a tantalizing prospect for people like me, who want the best, or close enough, on a tighter budget.
Engadget Score POOR UNINSPIRING GOOD EXCELLENT
Key
Xiaomi
Mi 9
87
Pros
Refined design
Stellar performance
Decent camera
 
Cons
No headphone jack
Divisive software
Average battery life
Summary
Xiaomi’s latest flagship offers tremendous value for €449. It has the latest Snapdragon processor, a modern design with a teardrop-shaped notch, and a better-than-expected camera system. The company’s Android skin, MIUI, is much-improved but still a divisive software experience. Overall it’s a great alternative to the OnePlus 6T (and eventually OnePlus 7) in Europe.
For a phone that costs €449 (roughly $508), the hardware makes a great first impression. The teardrop notch, while unremarkable, is miles better than the monstrosity on Google's Pixel 3 XL. There's no crazy sliding mechanism, pop-up camera or hole-punch notch, but that's okay. A small, centered notch is just fine with me. I wish the phone had a completely symmetrical bezel but appreciate it's hard to pull off without using an expensive display that curves back on itself, like the iPhone X line. The narrow chin isn't ideal, but it's on par with most Android flagships in 2019.

Spin the handset around and you'll find a curved back that Xiaomi says was inspired by Antoni Gaudí, the architect behind La Sagrada Familia in Barcelona. I can't see the similarities, but, apparently, it's been approved by the Gaudi Academia of Knowledge, so what do I know. Regardless, the sloping sides are sleek and comfortable enough to hold. Two of the Mi 9 colors, Ocean Blue and Lavender Violet, also have a rainbow-like glint as you tilt them in the light. The model I've been testing, however, is a more pedestrian Piano Black with no such finish. It does, however, still have a colorful accent around the first of its three vertically organized cameras.

The Mi 9 is a glass phone that looks tremendous in the box and, if you're lucky, the first five minutes in your hand. After that it's a fingerprint magnet, which requires constant wiping or screen-compatible gloves to keep clean. I've been using the bundled case (one of those cheap, plasticky shells) just to ensure no-one can see the smeary mess hidden underneath. Hopefully, soon, Xiaomi or a third-party manufacturer will release some decent cases for this thing.

The power and dedicated Google Assistant buttons (more on that later) are easy to reach without adjusting your grip or throwing a second hand into the mix. The volume rocker does, however, require a slight hand shuffle if you have smaller digits, like me. At least they're nice and clicky to use.

It's 2019, so unsurprisingly there's no headphone jack. The USB-C port is flanked by a single bottom-firing speaker which gets surprisingly loud. The audio quality isn't superb -- I'm still waiting for a phone that trumps the old HTC BoomSound speakers -- but it's adequate for podcasts and YouTube videos.

It wasn't ideal and made me yearn for an old-fashioned fingerprint sensor.

Like the Mi 8 Explorer Edition, the Mi 9 has an in-screen fingerprint sensor. The target area is small but clearly signposted with a circular fingerprint icon that sits on top of the lockscreen or active application. Xiaomi says the optical sensor is much improved and unlocks the phone up to 25 percent faster than the previous generation. It's quick, though I found the accuracy lacking. I often needed to press my thumbs -- I registered both, just to make sure -- twice or three times to unlock the device. Maybe I have weird hands or was coming at the target area from a strange angle. Whatever the reason, it wasn't ideal and made me yearn for an old-fashioned fingerprint sensor on the back of the phone.

Weirdly, Xiaomi has abandoned the face unlock option that shipped on both the Mi 8 and Mi 8 Explorer Edition. If you don't like the fingerprint sensor, then you'll have to make do with a traditional pin or pattern.
Plenty of other phone manufacturers have proven that you can build a device with flagship-level performance for under $600. These handsets are often tremendous but fall short in one key area: photography. "Good enough" is how I tend to describe the cameras on OnePlus phones, for instance. And to be clear, that's fine -- expected, even -- for hardware at this price point. Brands like Honor have to compromise somewhere to undercut their flagship competition.
Xiaomi wants the Mi 9 to be more than good enough, though. At Mobile World Congress, the company boasted that its triple-camera setup had been given a 107 score by DxOMark, putting it above the iPhone XS Max and Samsung's Galaxy Note 9. In fact, only three phones ranked higher: the Huawei Mate 20 Pro, P20 Pro and Samsung's new Galaxy S10 Plus.

DxOMark isn't definitive, however. In my testing, I've found the Mi 9 to be a brilliant camera which is close, but not equal to Google's fantastic Pixel 3.

The phone's primary shooter uses a 48-megapixel Sony sensor and a wide angle, f/1.75-aperture lens. It generally produces sharp images with good exposure, solid contrast and white balance. Some photos looked a little desaturated and the camera struggled in low-light conditions, losing detail and general vibrance in gloomy cathedrals. These shortcomings, of course, aren't unique to Xiaomi smartphones. They did make me miss the stellar Night Sight mode on Google's Pixel phones, however. As far as I'm concerned, no company has been able to match that software trickery.

To be honest, I rarely used the Mi 9's 12-megapixel telephoto lens. It only became a consideration when something physical, like a wall or ocean, sat between my feet and subject. (Usually, I would just walk closer and reframe the shot with the primary camera.) Sometimes, though, a moment was unfolding too quickly, and I didn't have time to rush over. In these instances, I appreciated the two-times optical zoom, which is triggered by tapping the 1x button inside Xiaomi's camera app. Unsurprisingly, you lose a bit of image quality as you zoom in. I found that most of the images were still usable for social media and WhatsApp threads, however.

I used the ultra-wide-angle camera even less. It was occasionally useful for capturing landscapes, group shots and, given its slightly fisheye look, sick three-sixty flips at the nearest skatepark. Most of the time, I was happy with the focal length and field of view in the primary camera. Still, it's a useful option to have should the right subject and scenario arise.

You can literally put star-shaped reflections in your eyes.

You can choose to add Beauty to your images and modify your subject's Figure, including their head, shoulders and legs. I tried these once out of sheer curiosity and never used them again, unsurprisingly. (You can literally put star-shaped reflections in your eyes.) There's also a portrait mode that simulates a shallow, bokehlicious depth of field with the telephoto camera or selfie snapper. You control the effect with a slider that ranges from f1.0 to f16. I found that it works surprisingly well, provided you keep the setting locked somewhere in the middle.

The phone also has an AI mode that analyzes the scene and picks settings depending on what it thinks you're trying to shoot. There are also various timers, tilt-shift and panorama options. I was most drawn to the Pro mode, however, which lets you choose the white balance, shutter speed and ISO.

On the video side, you can shoot at 4K and 1080p resolution at either 30 or 60 frames per second. If you switch to the ultra-wide-angle lens, however, you're stuck with 30 fps at 4K resolution. The resulting footage is fantastic for a smartphone and could, in my opinion, serve as a backup camera for professional vloggers and other content creators.

Every image and video is presented on a 6.39-inch, AMOLED display with a 2340x1080 FHD+ resolution. It's not the brightest, most vibrant or pixel-dense screen I've ever seen -- the latest crop of Galaxy phones take that crown with ease. But the panel is perfectly competent for Twitter threads, web pages and everything else I consume on a daily basis. For the price, I really have no complaints.
Moving across from a OnePlus phone, I had some reservations about the software. For the longest time, MIUI, Xiaomi's Android skin, was labeled a "blatant rip-off" of iOS. Were these assessments justified? Absolutely, though it didn't stop the company's impressive growth in China. If anything, the colorful and slightly simplified interface fueled it.

MIUI, however, has come a long way in the last few years. Like Samsung, the company has slowly evolved its design language into something that is mostly tolerable, occasionally delightful and recognizably different from so-called stock Android. The Mi 9 runs MIUI 10 (I spent most of my review on MIUI 10.2) the latest and best version of Xiaomi's skin. I still prefer Google's Pixel launcher and lighter alternatives such as Oxygen OS, but it's totally acceptable for the vast majority of people, in my opinion.

Well, that's provided you can stomach one massive difference from vanilla Android: the app drawer, or lack thereof. It's a big, glaring omission that has always been a cornerstone of the MIUI experience. And, unsurprisingly, it's the first way that critics draw comparisons with iOS.

I normally have two home screens: one filled with apps, the other with a stretched-out calendar widget. Transitioning to MIUI, therefore, took some time. I didn't like having four or five screens littered with folders, widgets and icons. And for the first few days, I would instinctively swipe from the bottom of the screen to find a particular app that wasn't on my default screen. After a while, though, I was able to rewrite some brain-goop and embrace Xiaomi's home screen-based workflow. If you can't get on board, I don't blame you -- just download Nova or another third-party launcher from the Play Store. There are tons to choose from, and most that I tried, including Evie and Microsoft Launcher, worked without a hitch.

Otherwise, there's a lot to like in MIUI 10. The notification shade is clean, legible and customizable, with plenty of shortcuts you can organize across two distinct pages. The app switcher, which uses two vertical columns, makes it dead simple to find and dismiss recently used applications. The small app cards are a great use of space, too, and ensure you're never scrolling for long. Honestly, I think it's better than the Pixel launcher, which only shows your current app and a hint of two others.

The system settings are logically organized and have small, consistently designed icons. The search bar is easy to use, and you'll find a full-blown dark mode under the Display option, similar to the one that Google is working on for the stock version of Android Q. MIUI 10 also lets you choose between classic navigation buttons and full-screen gestures. These work in a similar way to the Pixel launcher and other modern Android phones: You swipe up from the bottom of the display to go home, or swipe and hold to open the app drawer. A quick swipe from the left- or right-hand edge, meanwhile, will take you back one step or level in the current app.

Choosing gestures will, of course, free up some pixels at the bottom of the display and reveal more content inside your favorite applications. The Mi 9 comes with a truck-load of Xiaomi apps that are, for the most part, functional and thoughtfully designed. If you're part of the Google ecosystem, however, most of these basic utility apps will be redundant. (How many people in Europe are going to choose Mi Pay over Google Pay?) You can delete some but not all of these apps. Unsurprisingly, I now have a folder named 'Xiaomi' on my home screen that is never, ever opened.

Thankfully, Xiaomi's software ambitions don't stretch to the voice-enabled assistant. Pressing and holding the AI button on the left side of the device will trigger the helpful Google Assistant by default. Both the long press and a quick double-tap can be reconfigured to do other basic tasks, such as turning on the flashlight, reading mode or rear-facing camera. You can't change them to launch a custom app, however, which feels like a strange oversight. Still, a Google Assistant button is better than a Bixby one.

MIUI 10 doesn't drag down the phone's day-to-day performance, crucially. The Mi 9 uses Qualcomm's high-end Snapdragon 855 chipset and a more than respectable 6GB of RAM. Games, photo and video editing -- the phone handles every conceivable task with ease. I can't recall a stutter, app crash or glacial load time that made me grimace with frustration. Put simply, it's a powerful phone on par with modern flagships including the Pixel 3, OnePlus 6T and Samsung Galaxy S10. Yes, some of those devices have more RAM than the Mi 9, but I rarely noticed the difference in real life.
Battery life, however, was underwhelming. The Mi 9 ships with a 3,300mAh cell, which is a fraction smaller than the Mi 8. Why Xiaomi made this decision, I have no idea. During my testing, the phone would frequently dip below 15 percent an hour or two before I was heading to bed. For now, that's acceptable, but I do wonder how the battery will perform in 12 or 18 months. The silver lining is the phone's excellent wired and wireless charging, which is competitive with every other handset I've used. Admittedly, you can't charge other devices like the Galaxy S10 or Huawei Mate 20 Pro -- but how often do you need that feature, really?

The Mi 9 isn't perfect. The phone doesn't have a headphone jack, for instance, and can't survive underwater. If you can live with the software, though -- or don't mind using a third-party launcher -- this phone is ridiculously good value. It has the latest Snapdragon processor, a premium design and a camera system that narrows the gap with $1,000 flagships.

The OnePlus 7, of course, could trump this phone later in the year. And the OnePlus 6T (especially the $699 McLaren Edition) is still a fantastic choice if you want a cheaper flagship with a stock-like Android experience.

If you live in China or Europe, however, the Mi 9 is worth considering. The phone costs €449 (roughly $512) for 64GB of storage and €499 (roughly $570) if you want 128GB instead. These prices are, to put it bluntly, freakin' amazing. The standard Samsung Galaxy S10, for comparison, currently costs €909 in Europe, while the cheapest S10 Plus will set you back €1,009.

I know how I'd spend my money.


OUR VERDICT
The Xiaomi Mi 9 is a fantastic all-round device, offering many of the bells and whistles of high-end phones but without the price tag.
FOR
Affordable price
Impressive camera setup
Powerful chipset
AGAINST
Gets hot rather easily
Odd-looking UI
Low battery capacity
Update: Xiaomi has announced that it plans to release not one but two spin-offs for the Xiaomi Mi 9 – the Xiaomi Mi 9 SE and Xiaomi Mi 9T.

The Xiaomi Mi 9 SE is a 'compact' version of the base Mi 9, with pared-down specs and a price tag that's significantly lower than the already-cheap Mi 9. It's already available in certain regions, including the UK, so you can pick it up already.

The Xiaomi Mi 9T is a different device entirely, with an all-body screen and 'pop-up' selfie camera, as well as advanced specs. We don't know for sure when it'll be available yet, but we're expecting it to cost a little more than the Mi 9.

Xiaomi is still fairly new to the mobile market outside of China – the Xiaomi Mi 8 Pro was the first phone launched in the UK for example, in 2018 – but it’s posing some serious competition to establish brands with the Xiaomi Mi 9, its newest flagship device.

The Mi 9 looks like a fantastic jack-of-all-trades device; it has a powerful processor, impressive camera setup, and supports up to 20W fast charging – and on top of that it’s a whole load cheaper than phones with a similar spec. 

It’s not without drawbacks – Xiaomi has clearly had to cut some corners to get a fantastic chipset and camera array into the handset at such a low price, and its attempt at designing its own UI for the Mi 9 likely won’t please everyone.

Since release competitors to the Xiaomi Mi 9 have come out, most notably the Huawei P30, a three-camera photography powerhouse with a sleek design and impressive chipset, and it sits at a price-point only slightly higher than the Mi 9.

But generally the Mi 9 is an impressive mid-range device, with internals that are surprisingly good for its relatively low price – so are this phone, and the Xiaomi brand in general, a serious threat to established mid-range Android players like Huawei and OnePlus?.
Xiaomi Mi 9 price and availability
The Xiaomi Mi 9 is available now in China, Spain and Italy, and from April 30 in the UK. 

However Xiaomi has told TechRadar that, for the time being, there are no plans to release the Xiaomi Mi 9 in the US, so if you're based there you might want to check out the 'Competition' section of this review for suggestions of other similar handsets instead of the Mi 9.

The Xiaomi Mi 9 price varies quite a bit between regions – the 64GB memory version of the handset costs €449 / £499 (roughly ₹35,000, AED$1,849), and the larger 128GB storage phone costs more at €499 / £549 (about ₹38,800, AED2,000).

While in the UK you're still paying a reasonable mid-range price for the Xiaomi Mi 9, it's around £100 more expensive for each model than if you directly converted the prices from Euros.

Design and display
The Xiaomi Mi 9 has a slightly curved glass back, giving it a distinct look and a comfortable feel. Xiaomi says this creates an appealing holographic effect; we didn’t notice this with the Piano Black handset we tested, but it’s possible the Ocean Blue or Lavender Violet colors create this effect a little better. 

The Mi 9 has a 6.39-inch AMOLED display, with a 2340 x 1080 Full HD+ resolution, which delivers vibrant colors with a great brightness range – it was a treat to watch movies on and complemented the fantastic camera array. This screen is broken by a small top bezel housing the front-facing camera, but other than that is unbroken, with no top bezel to speak of and minimal chin. 

The Xiaomi Mi 9 measures 157.5 x 74.67 x 7.61mm, so it’s a medium-sized device, but at 173g it does feel a touch on the heavy side – it’s no Moto G7 Power for sure, but we did start to notice its weight after long gaming sessions or photo shoots.

On the bottom of the device you’ll find a USB-C port – though no 3.5mm headphone jack – while the volume rocker and power button are on the right side, and there’s a Google assistant button to the left. 

These buttons are pretty pronounced – we often accidentally pressed the Google assistant button when we put the phone down on its side or picked it up, which became annoying after a while.
On the rear of the phone the tri-lens camera array, which we’ll look at in detail later, also juts out a fair way – we often found ourselves scraping our finger on it when moving the device in our hand

Generally, however, it’s a nice device to hold – the side buttons and in-screen fingerprint sensor are low enough to be easy to reach, the curved glass back feels comfortable in the hand for long periods, and the Google assistant button is out the way most of the time – although the large display does mean the top of the device can be hard to reach.

Included in the box is a plastic case which fits the handset snugly, and conveniently hides how hot the phone can get – more on that later. While this feels useful for protecting the device it does add some extra bulk, so it may not be for everyone.

Battery life
The Xiaomi Mi 9 doesn’t have the worst battery in the world, but at 3,300mAh it’s a little on the small side for a device with such powerful specs, and in practice we found it a little disappointing. 

The battery level dropped quickly from moderate usage – scrolling through social media and checking the news on an hour-long commute used up between 10% and 20%, and the phone usually didn’t last a day without a top-up at some point.

Usually, games and movies drain a phone’s power quicker than normal use, but when playing high-end games and streaming shows on Netflix we didn’t notice a very significant change in how much battery was being burned.

When we put the Mi 9 through our battery test, which involves playing a 90-minute video on full brightness with accounts syncing over Wi-Fi in the background, the battery only dropped to 85%. That’s better than last year’s Samsung Galaxy S9, which ended on 84%, but not as good as the iPhone XS which only fell 11%.
We did find that the phone charged up incredibly fast – using the charger included with the phone it only took 45 minutes to get to 90%, although the charging speed dropped noticeably for the last 10%. 

Wireless charging was equally impressive – with a 10W charger the handset reached 80% in just 30 minutes, and the Mi 9 supports up to 20W charging, which would power up the phone even faster.

Those are some impressive speeds, and went some way to offsetting how annoying it was to have to charge the phone frequently, but we’d rather the phone had a bigger battery so this wasn’t an issue.
Camera
The camera is one of the Xiaomi Mi 9’s key features, and it’s one of the strongest parts of the phone.

On the back are 48MP f/1.75 wide-angle,  16MP f/2.2 ultra-wide, and 12MP f/2.2 telephoto cameras, which combine to take pretty fantastic pictures, and which are complemented by a collection of AI features to help your photography. On the front there’s 20MP f/2.0 selfie camera, housed in the small 'teardrop' notch.
Pictures taken with the camera looked great, with colors rendered fantastically well – particular tones are boosted, especially reds and greens which appeared incredibly vibrant on screen.

The camera didn’t fare as well for low-light pictures, with quality suffering when there wasn’t much natural light, although colors were still boosted in these settings, creating some interesting-looking images. The Night camera mode fixed this somewhat, but pictures still didn’t look as good as we’d like.
One novel camera feature is the ultra-wide mode, which utilizes the 16MP ultra-wide angle lens, with its 117° field of view, to take panoramic pictures. 

This was useful for certain shots, as it let us include more of our subjects in the frame, but the wider angle snapped meant the resulting images did seem a little squashed. 

Perhaps the camera’s strongest feature, however, is its depth sensing, courtesy of the 12MP telephoto lens. It was quick to focus on subjects and accurately gauged depth to apply the correct amount of background blur, without even requiring you to select the bokeh or beauty modes the phone packs. 

There’s also a manual focus mode, in which you tap on your subject on the screen to focus on it, and this too was quick and easy to use.

The front-facing camera was strong too, auto-focusing quickly with fair color accuracy, although unsurprisingly they’re not up to the standard of images taken with the primary camera.
There are  a range of pre- and post-processing features, including beauty mode, which lets you add bokeh effects to pictures, smooth skin tones and add other flourishes, and Pro mode, which lets you take control of shooting settings like aperture and shutter speed. 

These were both great to use – they let us fine tune our shooting to perfect when we needed to take artistic looking photos.

The rear camera also supports video recording up to 4K, which was a little hard to set up as the option was buried in menus.

 Footage was high quality and was supported with image stabilization – the handset got quite hot the longer we recorded, but it didn’t affect performance – and we don’t expect many users to be filming in 4K for as long as we did.
 
 Interface and reliability
One noteworthy part of the Xiaomi Mi 9 is its user interface, which Xiaomi calls MIUI and which is runs over the top of  Android 9 Pie UI – but we’re not too keen on the way it looks.

MIUI app icons aren’t a uniform shape – third-party apps were square with rounded edges, but there were also circles, custom shapes, squares with corners that were rounded more or less than the third-party icons, and squares with pointed corners, and the lack of consistency left us unimpressed.

On top of that the large icons, with pale colors for the first-party apps, looked a little unsophisticated, so at times we felt like we were using a children’s phone rather than a cutting-edge flagship. 

There’s no app drawer either, which comes as quite a shock if you’re used to swiping up to see a list of all your installed apps, and takes a lot of getting used to – instead, swiping up brings up Google search. 

A knock-on effect of this is that the home pages quickly became cluttered with apps, which isn’t ideal if you’ve got a massive collection.

Other than the MIUI overlay and lack of an app drawer, the Xiaomi Mi 9 runs standard Android Pie, so you get features such as adaptive brightness; some features, like the relocated volume slider and navigation changes, have also been redesigned as part of MIUI, but they function exactly the same way.

One other issue we had was that the in-screen fingerprint sensor is a little unreliable – it wouldn’t always pick up our print straight away, and we often had to wiggle our digit around to wake the phone, which is a problem we’ve never had with rear- or side-mounted sensors.

Movies, music and gaming
With its Snapdragon 855 chipset, the Xiaomi Mi 9 is a gaming powerhouse. High-end games ran smoothly, even on the highest graphics settings, and the generous screen size made games easy to play – it’s one of the best handsets we’ve played games on, and the fact that the chipset is optimized for gaming meant battery drain when playing was barely an issue.

One thing we did notice, however, is that the Mi 9 warmed up to a surprising degree when we played games – one round of games like PUBG Mobile or Fortnite left the the edges of the device feeling noticeably warm, and playing for much longer heated the phone up more than we’ve found with comparable handsets.

We didn’t notice any negative effects from this overheating – performance didn’t suffer even when the device was hot, but it did heat up more than we’d have expected, so it’s something to be aware of.

Video playback was great too, as the Mi 9’s AMOLED display is bright and has great contrast. 

Both gaming and movies were improved by the Mi 9’s large screen, and it’s an easy phone to hold when playing or watching – however the protruding rear camera bump did become slightly annoying as we’d keep scraping our finger on it.

The Mi 9’s internal speakers are rather low-quality, and music played through them sounded tinny. The audio quality isn’t what we’d expect from an otherwise impressive handset, which was frustrating for movies and gaming. 

Performance and benchmarks
The Xiaomi Mi 9 is one of the first smartphones powered by Qualcomm’s Snapdragon 855 chipset, which is also found in the Samsung Galaxy 10 and which is probably the most advanced mobile processor available today – and it shows.  

When we ran a benchmark test on the Mi 9 it returned an impressive multi-core score of 10,316; that’s one of the highest scores we’ve seen, only bettered slightly by the likes of the iPhone XS and Samsung Galaxy S10 Plus – and you won’t be able to pick those phones up for anything near the price of the Mi 9. 

Despite only having 6GM RAM, where many flagships now pack 8GB, the handset is enough of a processing powerhouse to rival its high-end competitors. 

The user interface was impressively slick and responsive, even when we had multiple apps open, and even demanding games ran smoothly – we played PUBG Mobile on its highest settings and the phone didn’t break a sweat.

Even the camera, which on some handsets can be the weak link in an otherwise efficient setup, was quick and responsive.



However, the aforementioned heating isn’t only an issue when you’re gaming or watching movies – we also found that when we were using the camera for any amount of time the handset heated up.

For long photoshoots we could see this becoming a problem, as it could lead to damage to the battery or other parts of the phone – when we were testing the camera the battery reached 42C, over a normal running temperature of about 29C, which was rather alarming.

Verdict
The Xiaomi Mi 9 is a powerful device with some great features – and at such a relatively low price, it’s unexpectedly fantastic. 

With a chipset and camera setup to rival high-end flagships like the Samsung Galaxy S10, yet a price tag roughly half as large, it’s definitely a device worth considering if you want a strong handset from a lesser-known brand.

That’s not to say it's a perfect phone, and the corners Xiaomi has cut to keep the Mi 9’s price low become more evident the more you use it. Gaming and photography can cause the device to warm up a little too much – never to a level that’ll slow the phone, but more than most other handsets would under similar circumstances. 

The battery capacity is a little disappointing too – a device that’s so good for battery-intensive activities should really be able to last longer when used for those activities. 

We also weren’t too fond of the Xiaomi Mi 9’s UI – of course that’s subjective, and it won’t be a deal-breaker for many, but we did miss Android 9’s standard aesthetic when using it.

Who's it for?
All in all, though, the Mi 9 is a fantastic mid-range all-rounder with enough strengths to make it a viable alternative to high-range flagships, and anyone who needs a lot of processing power, whether that’s for gaming, photography, or other functions, is sure to get their money’s worth. 

Should I buy it?
The Xiaomi Mi 9 is one of the most powerful handsets you can get at its price tag. Despite the value for money on offer here though, not everyone needs a phone that scores five figures in a benchmark test, and if you’re in the market for a cheap handset and don’t plan to use it for intensive tasks, there are alternatives that might suit you better. 

Competition
OnePlus 6T

Like the Xiaomi Mi 9, the OnePlus 6T has a mid-range price but high-end specs. It has a noticeably bigger battery, and OnePlus’ signature alert slider that lets you easily change whether your phone is on ring, vibrate or silent, but it also has fewer cameras and a weaker chipset.

Read our full OnePlus 6T review

Huawei P20 Pro

Along with OnePlus, Huawei is another Chinese manufacturer that has taken the Western phone market by storm, and which Xiaomi is hoping to emulate. The P20 Pro is, like the OnePlus 6 and Xiaomi Mi 9, a mid-range phone, but has some features that put its rivals to shame. Its battery is significantly bigger than the Mi 9’s, and it has a three-camera rear setup that rivals the Mi 9’s in terms of features and resolution. 

Read our full Huawei P20 Pro review

Samsung Galaxy S10e

Taking a step up in terms of price, the Samsung Galaxy S10e is the affordable handset in Samsung’s Galaxy S10 range. It has many of the features of its pricier siblings, like an impressive camera array, Bixby support and a top-tier processor, but it’s a little closer to the Chinese phones in terms of price. 

Read our full Samsung Galaxy S10e review
